# Data Validity

Validity measures how well data conforms to the rules, standards, and constraints of its data model or schema. Valid data is accurate, complete, and consistent with its data model.

Data validity describes the closeness of data value to predetermined values or a calculation.


Validity can be measured by comparing data to the rules, standards, and constraints of its data model or schema. Validity can be measured using metrics such as validation rate, validity rate, and validity score.


Data validity simply means how well does data meet certain criteria, often evolving from analysis of prior data as relationships and issues are revealed.

Data teams can develop data validity rules or data validation tests after profiling the data and seeing where it breaks. These rules might include:

Valid values in a column
Column conforms to a specific format
Primary key integrity
Nulls in a column
Valid value combination
Computational rules
Chronological rules
Conditional rules

## GX Rules related to Validity

1. **ExpectColumnMostCommonValueToBeInSet**: Expect the most common value to be within the designated value set. ExpectColumnMostCommonValueToBeInSet is a Column Aggregate Expectation. Column Aggregate Expectations are one of the most common types of Expectation. They are evaluated for a single column, and produce an aggregate Metric, such as a mean, standard deviation, number of unique values, column type, etc. If that Metric meets the conditions you set, the Expectation considers that data valid.
2. **ExpectColumnPairValuesToBeEqual**: Expect the values in column A to be the same as column B. ExpectColumnPairValuesToBeEqual is a Column Pair Map Expectation. Column Pair Map Expectations are evaluated for a pair of columns and ask a yes/no question about the row-wise relationship between those two columns. Based on the result, they then calculate the percentage of rows that gave a positive answer. If the percentage is high enough, the Expectation considers that data valid.
3. **ExpectColumnPairValuesToBeInSet**: Expect the paired values from columns A and B to belong to a set of valid pairs. ExpectColumnPairValuesToBeInSet is a Column Pair Map Expectation. Column Pair Map Expectations are evaluated for a pair of columns and ask a yes/no question about the row-wise relationship between those two columns. Based on the result, they then calculate the percentage of rows that gave a positive answer. If the percentage is high enough, the Expectation considers that data valid.
4. **ExpectColumnValueLengthsToBeBetween**: Expect the column entries to be strings with length between a minimum value and a maximum value (inclusive). This expectation only works for string-type values. Invoking it on ints or floats will raise a TypeError. ExpectColumnValueLengthsToBeBetween is a Column Map Expectation. Column Map Expectations are one of the most common types of Expectation. They are evaluated for a single column and ask a yes/no question for every row in that column. Based on the result, they then calculate the percentage of rows that gave a positive answer. If the percentage is high enough, the Expectation considers that data valid.
5. **ExpectColumnValueLengthsToEqual**: Expect the column entries to be strings with length equal to the provided value. This expectation only works for string-type values. Invoking it on ints or floats will raise a TypeError. ExpectColumnValueLengthsToEqual is a Column Map Expectation. Column Map Expectations are one of the most common types of Expectation. They are evaluated for a single column and ask a yes/no question for every row in that column. Based on the result, they then calculate the percentage of rows that gave a positive answer. If the percentage is high enough, the Expectation considers that data valid.
6. **ExpectColumnValuesToBeInSet**: Expect each column value to be in a given set. ExpectColumnValuesToBeInSet is a Column Map Expectation. Column Map Expectations are one of the most common types of Expectation. They are evaluated for a single column and ask a yes/no question for every row in that column. Based on the result, they then calculate the percentage of rows that gave a positive answer. If the percentage is high enough, the Expectation considers that data valid. 
7. **ExpectColumnValuesToMatchLikePattern**: Expect the column entries to be strings that match a given like pattern expression. ExpectColumnValuesToMatchLikePattern is a Column Map Expectation. Column Map Expectations are one of the most common types of Expectation. They are evaluated for a single column and ask a yes/no question for every row in that column. Based on the result, they then calculate the percentage of rows that gave a positive answer. If the percentage is high enough, the Expectation considers that data valid.
8. **ExpectColumnValuesToMatchLikePatternList**: Expect the column entries to be strings that match any of a provided list of like pattern expressions. ExpectColumnValuesToMatchLikePatternList is a Column Map Expectation. Column Map Expectations are one of the most common types of Expectation. They are evaluated for a single column and ask a yes/no question for every row in that column. Based on the result, they then calculate the percentage of rows that gave a positive answer. If the percentage is high enough, the Expectation considers that data valid.
9. **ExpectColumnValuesToMatchRegex**: Expect the column entries to be strings that match a given regular expression. Valid matches can be found anywhere in the string, for example "[at]+" will identify the following strings as expected: "cat", "hat", "aa", "a", and "t", and the following strings as unexpected: "fish", "dog". ExpectColumnValuesToMatchRegex is a Column Map Expectation. Column Map Expectations are one of the most common types of Expectation. They are evaluated for a single column and ask a yes/no question for every row in that column. Based on the result, they then calculate the percentage of rows that gave a positive answer. If the percentage is high enough, the Expectation considers that data valid.
10. **ExpectColumnValuesToMatchRegexList**: Expect the column entries to be strings that can be matched to either any of or all of a list of regular expressions. Matches can be anywhere in the string. ExpectColumnValuesToMatchRegexList is a Column Map Expectation. Column Map Expectations are one of the most common types of Expectation. They are evaluated for a single column and ask a yes/no question for every row in that column. Based on the result, they then calculate the percentage of rows that gave a positive answer. If the percentage is high enough, the Expectation considers that data valid.
11. **ExpectColumnValuesToNotBeInSet**: Expect column entries to not be in the set. ExpectColumnValuesToNotBeInSet is a Column Map Expectation. Column Map Expectations are one of the most common types of Expectation. They are evaluated for a single column and ask a yes/no question for every row in that column. Based on the result, they then calculate the percentage of rows that gave a positive answer. If the percentage is high enough, the Expectation considers that data valid.
12. **ExpectColumnValuesToNotMatchLikePattern**: Expect the column entries to be strings that do NOT match a given like pattern expression. ExpectColumnValuesToNotMatchLikePattern is a Column Map Expectation. Column Map Expectations are one of the most common types of Expectation. They are evaluated for a single column and ask a yes/no question for every row in that column. Based on the result, they then calculate the percentage of rows that gave a positive answer. If the percentage is high enough, the Expectation considers that data valid.
13. **ExpectColumnValuesToNotMatchLikePatternList**: Expect the column entries to be strings that do NOT match any of a provided list of like pattern expressions. ExpectColumnValuesToNotMatchLikePatternList is a Column Map Expectation. Column Map Expectations are one of the most common types of Expectation. They are evaluated for a single column and ask a yes/no question for every row in that column. Based on the result, they then calculate the percentage of rows that gave a positive answer. If the percentage is high enough, the Expectation considers that data valid.
14. **ExpectColumnValuesToNotMatchRegex**: Expect the column entries to be strings that do NOT match a given regular expression. The regex must not match any portion of the provided string. For example, "[at]+" would identify the following strings as expected: "fish", "dog", and the following as unexpected: "cat", "hat". ExpectColumnValuesToNotMatchRegex is a Column Map Expectation. Column Map Expectations are one of the most common types of Expectation. They are evaluated for a single column and ask a yes/no question for every row in that column. Based on the result, they then calculate the percentage of rows that gave a positive answer. If the percentage is high enough, the Expectation considers that data valid.
15. **ExpectColumnValuesToNotMatchRegexList**: Expect the column entries to be strings that do not match any of a list of regular expressions. Matches can be anywhere in the string. ExpectColumnValuesToNotMatchRegexList is a Column Map Expectation. Column Map Expectations are one of the most common types of Expectation. They are evaluated for a single column and ask a yes/no question for every row in that column. Based on the result, they then calculate the percentage of rows that gave a positive answer. If the percentage is high enough, the Expectation considers that data valid.

### Consider Below 

1. **ExpectColumnValueToMatchStrftimeFormat**: Expect column entries to be datetimes that match a given strftime format. ExpectColumnValueToMatchStrftimeFormat is a Column Aggregate Expectation. Column Aggregate Expectations are one of the most common types of Expectation. They are evaluated for a single column, and produce an aggregate Metric, such as a mean, standard deviation, number of unique values, column type, etc. If that Metric meets the conditions you set, the Expectation considers that data valid.
2. **ExpectColumnValueToMatchJsonSchema**: Expect column entries to be JSON objects that match a given JSON schema. ExpectColumnValueToMatchJsonSchema is a Column Aggregate Expectation. Column Aggregate Expectations are one of the most common types of Expectation. They are evaluated for a single column, and produce an aggregate Metric, such as a mean, standard deviation, number of unique values, column type, etc. If that Metric meets the conditions you set, the Expectation considers that data valid.
3. **ExpectColumnValueToMatchModulo**: Expect column entries to be integers that are evenly divisible by a given divisor. ExpectColumnValueToMatchModulo is a Column Aggregate Expectation. Column Aggregate Expectations are one of the most common types of Expectation. They are evaluated for a single column, and produce an aggregate Metric, such as a mean, standard deviation, number of unique values, column type, etc. If that Metric meets the conditions you set, the Expectation considers that data valid.